---
title: Upgrading to Bref 2.0
current_menu: upgrading
introduction: Upgrading guide to go from Bref 1.x to Bref 2.0.
---

## Updating dependencies

### PHP 8 required

Bref 2.0 now requires PHP 8.0 or greater.

### Composer Dependencies

You should update the `bref/bref` dependency in your application's composer.json file:

```diff
-    "bref/bref": "^1.0",
+    "bref/bref": "^2.0",
```

Then run `composer update bref/bref --with-all-dependencies`.

If you use the [Bref Extra extensions](https://github.com/brefphp/extra-php-extensions), you also need to update the `bref/extra-php-extensions` package to version `^1.0`.

### Serverless Framework

If you are using Bref with [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/framework) (which is the default), Bref 2.0 requires Serverless Framework v3. Serverless Framework 2.x is no longer supported.

To check your Serverless Framework version, run:

```bash
serverless --version
```

If you need to upgrade, [read the Serverless Framework documentation](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/getting-started#upgrade) (short version: run `npm install -g serverless`).

## PHP runtimes

There is a new (simpler) syntax to use Bref's PHP runtimes in `serverless.yml`:

```yaml
functions:
    hello:
        # ...
        runtime: php-81
        
        # instead of:
        runtime: provided.al2
        layers:
          - ${bref:layer.php-81}
```

The [bref.sh](https://bref.sh) documentation now uses the simpler `runtime: php-81` syntax, but `${bref:layer.php-xxx}` variables still work! These variables are not deprecated. There are no breaking changes here.

## Bref CLI

The following commands of `vendor/bin/bref` have changed:

- `vendor/bin/bref cli` is replaced by the simpler `serverless bref:cli`.

  For example:

  ```bash
  vendor/bin/bref cli mystack-dev-artisan --region=eu-west-1 -- migrate --force
  # becomes:
  serverless bref:cli --args="migrate --force"
  ```

  No need to provide the function name or the region anymore. Read [the Console documentation](../runtimes/console.md#usage) to learn more. You will also find alternatives if you don't use the `serverless` CLI.

- `vendor/bin/bref local` is replaced by the simpler `serverless bref:local`.

  For example:

  ```bash
  vendor/bin/bref local --handler=my-handler.php
  # becomes:
  serverless bref:local -f hello
  ```

  No need to provide the handler file name anymore, we directly use the function name. The new `serverless bref:local` command has similar arguments as `serverless invoke`.

  Read [the Local Development documentation](../function/local-development.md) to learn more. You will also find alternatives if you don't use the `serverless` CLI.

- `vendor/bin/bref layers` is replaced by the simpler `serverless bref:layers`.

  Layer versions are also available at [runtimes.bref.sh](https://runtimes.bref.sh/) if you don't use the `serverless` CLI.

These changes allowed us to simplify the commands (automatically use the AWS region, credentials and stage from the `serverless` CLI). It also allowed us to remove the biggest `bref/bref` Composer dependencies and make the package much lighter.

## Development Docker images

The development Docker images have been simplified. You will need to update your `docker-compose.yml`.

Before (Bref v1):

```yaml
services:

    web:
        image: bref/fpm-dev-gateway
        ports:
            - '8000:80'
        volumes:
            - .:/var/task
        depends_on:
            - php
        environment:
            HANDLER: public/index.php
            DOCUMENT_ROOT: public

    app:
        image: bref/php-80-fpm-dev
        volumes:
            - .:/var/task

    console:
        image: bref/php-80
        volumes:
            - .:/var/task
        entrypoint: php
```

After (Bref v2):

```yaml
services:
    app:
        image: bref/php-80-fpm-dev:2
        ports: [ '8000:8000' ]
        volumes:
            - .:/var/task
        environment:
            HANDLER: public/index.php
            DOCUMENT_ROOT: public
```

The `bref/php-XX-fpm-dev` images can now run HTTP applications, console commands as well as event-driven functions too. Read more in [web app local development](../web-apps/local-development.md).

The `bref/fpm-dev-gateway` image is no longer needed, and code running in `bref/php-XX-fpm-dev` now runs in an environment even closer to production.

> Note: In order to be future-proof, we recommend to set the Bref major version in the Docker images. For example, with Bref 2, use `bref/php-80-fpm-dev:2` instead of just `bref/php-80-fpm-dev`.

## Smaller breaking changes that might impact you

The changes below should not impact the majority of users. However, if you are using any of these features, you might need to update your code.

### Removed `separateVendor: true`

The `separateVendor` option (in `serverless.yml`) has been removed.

It allowed to deploy the `vendor/` directory separately from the app to reduce the size of the deployment package. It was very buggy (contributed a long time ago and not maintained by anyone) and added a lot of technical debt.

Instead, when hitting the 250MB limit, you are encouraged to [deploy via Docker images](https://bref.sh/docs/web-apps/docker.html) instead (which have a limit of 10GB).

### Removed `Bref\Lambda\SimpleLambdaClient`

The `Bref\Lambda\SimpleLambdaClient` class has been removed. It was a simple wrapper around the AWS SDK that was used internally in Bref.

If you were using this class in your application, you can use the AWS SDK directly, or the simpler and lighter [Async AWS package](https://async-aws.com/clients/lambda.html).

### Removed `Bref\Websocket\SimpleWebsocketClient`

The `Bref\Websocket\SimpleWebsocketClient` class has been extracted to a separate package: [bref/api-gateway-websocket-client](https://github.com/brefphp/api-gateway-websocket-client).

### Changed the AWS account ID for AWS Lambda layers

The AWS account ID where Bref layers are published is different for v2. That lets us keep releasing Bref v1 layers without mixing up layer numbers (e.g. layer 24 being a v2 layer and layer 25 being a v1 layer).

For Bref v2 layers, you need to use `534081306603` as the AWS account number (instead of `209497400698`).

```bash
# Bref v1 layer
arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-2:209497400698:layer:php-82-fpm:xxx

# Bref v2 layer
arn:aws:lambda:eu-west-2:534081306603:layer:php-82-fpm:xxx
```
